All right.
So it looks like a new implementation is working out well.
We are feeding in a prop and we are reacting to an event emitted by our child component, which is text
input.
But I think we could do even better.
Wouldn't it be great if we could use the View V model directive, but instead of using it on an input
element for HTML?
Wouldn't it be great if we could apply it to our own custom component such as text input?
Wouldn't it be great if we could replace these two lines right here, which are a lot more declarative,
which are a lot more explicit with a simple V model directive?
And it would be great if we could thus react to both situations, both the change of data up here flowing
down as props to the text input component and the event emission from our child component reaching us
up here.
Wouldn't it be great if we could replace these two lines with a V model directive that would do the
exact same thing?
Well, turns out we can, and it is based on the exact same implementation that we have currently in
our text input.
We only have to change a couple details.
So in order for Vue to be able to allow us to apply a V model directive to a custom component, we need
to have an exact product name and we need to emit an exact message.
And if we set those boundaries, if we give you what it wants as far as the names of the messages and
the prop that it expects, then it's going to allow us to implement V model on the parent component.
So let's start with text input.
We're going to keep the exact same logic that we have the exact same implementation of having the parent
provide the prop with a value and then emitting an event upwards.
But we're only going to change the name of the prop and the name of the message.
Okay.
So in order for a view to permit us to use the model, we have to call our prop model value.
So right here, we're going to tell our text input component that instead of having a prop called value,
we need a prop called model value.
So lowercase M, capital V.
So obviously if we make that change up here, we need to make sure that this prop is still bound to
the value attribute on our input element.
So right here, instead of referencing the value prop, we need to reference the model value prop,
same exact technical detail.
The only thing that's changed is the exact name of the prop.
We've changed it from value to model value.
Okay, that is half of the equation.
The other half of the equation is the name of the message that we emit.
So currently we are emitting an event or a message called handle input.
What we can do is change this to this string update, colon model value.
And again, the reason we're using this is because this is what Vue expects.
If we want to get permission to use the model on the parent component, we are totally welcome to use
this approach right here.
But if we want to replace this implementation with the model, we have to call the prop model value
and we have to call this message update colon model value.
Now to be fair, I believe there is a set up where we can use the model and we can keep whatever prop
name and event name that we want, but it requires more configuration.
So what I prefer to do is just follow what Vue expects and, you know, make the least amount of effort
necessary to get this feature done.
So we changed the prop name to model value and we change the event name to update colon model value,
which makes sense because it represents an update to the value that's going to populate the model value
prop.
So now that we created that, we can transition in job search form to using V model.
So I'm going to remove these two pieces and right above placeholder, I'm going to use the V model directive
and it works the exact same way it does with a regular HTML input element.
We simply provide an equal sign and in a string the name of the data property that we want to attach.
So we want to attach this to our role data property and behind the scenes view will know that when we
use V model with a custom component, it should create a prop called model value.
That's what it knows how to do behind the scenes.
That's why we told this component to call that prop model value.
And it will also know that the omission of the event update model value means update the value overall.
So we have made it a lot more declarative instead of imperatively writing out how we wanted those two
pieces to function, the binding between the parent and child, we're now letting Vue take care of everything
behind the scenes, which view is more than capable of doing, which spares us the complexity.
The only thing we have to know is that the property has to be this and the event name has to be this.
So right down below we can repeat the exact same thing.
We can remove this binding to the value prop and we can remove the reaction to the handle input if.
From the child.
And here we're going to use the model and we're going to connect it to the location, data, property
on job search form.
And with that, we have completed our refactor.
So now notice how clean text input is.
Notice how we've isolated some logic, such as the styling of the text input to its own reusable shared
component.
Notice how now we can reuse that input anywhere we want in any other component.
We just need to provide a V model to it in order to connect it to the parent's data property, which
is actually going to store the value.
And then we simply need to provide an optional placeholder prop if we want to customize the starting
value that's rendered as the placeholder.
But this is a lot cleaner than having to render this every single time.
We want to use a text input that is consistent throughout our app.
So with that, we can transition to our browser and notice that now the way the model syntax is going
to work.
So what am I looking for?
I'm looking for a job as a programmer in, let's say, New City.
Let's do Orlando.
So right here you'll notice in job search form we're going to have those data properties correctly populate.
And within the job search form, in the text input, we're going to see Vue pass down the correct prop
of model value.
That's what it knows to use behind the scene and scenes.
And you can see it populate programmer down here, which in turn is going to populate the visual input
field on the page, which is bound to the value of that model value prop.
All right.
So I think this is the cleanest implementation we have so far.
I'm really happy with how far we've come and we'll continue in the very next lesson.